JIM YOUNG: Well,
welcome everybody.
Thank you for coming today.
I'm Jim Young.
I work on the Google
for Work team.
And I want to welcome
everybody to today's session.
I think it's going to be a
very thought-provoking and
interesting session, something
completely different than what
you've experienced previously.
So in introducing our
guest today, at Google,
we have something called
10x and a healthy disregard
for the seemingly impossible.
But our guest today
has done some things
in the physical, mental,
and emotional realm
that definitely
qualifies for that.
He basically did the Iditarod
on foot, not on a sled.
He then went on to do the
Badwater Ultramarathon, which
is 140 miles, 168
roughly, give or take?
JOE DE SENA: 135.
JIM YOUNG: 135 in
140-degree heat.
JOE DE SENA: 137.
[LAUGHTER]
JIM YOUNG: 137.
Not that he remembers.
Down to 49 degrees roughly?
JOE DE SENA: Yeah.
JIM YOUNG:
Temperature variation.
And then did the Vermont
100 ultra marathon,
and then did the Lake Placid
Ironman all in one week.
JOE DE SENA: It was
much cheaper flights.
[LAUGHTER]
JIM YOUNG: So I wanted to
welcome Joe De Sena to Google.
We met recently up at his farm
for a little, unique off-site
that we're going to get
into a little bit later.
So welcome to Talks at Google.
To start things off, I
thought it was fascinating
that when you do
ultra-endurance events, often
you experience unique things.
You hallucinated about
hamburgers one time.
And I'm sort of curious.
How does one-- how did
that condition come about,
and where were you, and
what were you doing?
Sort of walk us
through, how do you
hallucinate about hamburgers?
JOE DE SENA: I've
hallucinated a lot,
as has anybody that's gone
beyond 24 hours no sleep
and really pushing themselves.
But what's interesting is
you can actually smell.
So you're not only
seeing what is not there,
but you're smelling it.
All the sensations exist.
And you're absolutely
convinced that there's
a McDonald's around the corner.
We were in Canada at the time.
It was 30 below.
We had already gone
four days without sleep.
I was starving, obviously.
Our philosophy used to be,
as a team, if you're hungry,
you're eating too much.
So we were always hungry.
And I swear there was
a McDonald's there.
And it wasn't.
But a more interesting
hallucination story
was we were nine days
into a race, four of us,
and in the sky were these
wonderful cumulus clouds.
And we all saw the
same Disney figures.
Because 12 hours later,
we were talking about it,
and we all saw the same thing.
And so that's interesting.
One more hallucination story.
We were in Alaska,
day eight, day nine,
and we all saw a
bear coming at us.
And so we got in position.
We got our hiking poles out.
We were ready to
defend ourselves.
It was a tree.
It hadn't moved.
[LAUGHTER]
But this bear was coming at us.
JIM YOUNG: I once had
something similar.
I played 36 hours of
continuous tennis.
And I was playing singles.
And I actually thought I had
a doubles partner on my side.
I'd started hallucinating.
So per his point,
beyond 24 hours,
it's interesting what the
human mind goes through.
So many people may not know
that you actually started off
as an entrepreneur
at a very young age.
And I'm sort of curious, your
upbringing and the influence
of where you grew
up, your parents.
And how did you
start off becoming
an entrepreneur at
such a young-- I
think it was in your teenage
years or even before that?
JOE DE SENA: Even
before that, yeah.
So my dad was very successful.
He was an entrepreneur across
many different industries.
And he went broke
in the mid-'80s.
And my neighbor,
unbeknownst to me,
was the head of the organized
crime family, the Bonanno crime
family.
And he had no--
JIM YOUNG: Wait a second.
[LAUGHTER]
JOE DE SENA: He had no son.
He had daughters.
And he took a liking to me.
And I was looking
for work, just a way
to make a few extra dollars.
And he said, clean my pool.
And that led to another
pool and another pool.
And before you know
it, I had 750 customers
that were mostly organized crime
people, which had its benefits.
[LAUGHTER]
And so that was my
entrepreneur story
at a young age,
which ultimately led
me to get a job on Wall Street.
And--
[LAUGHTER]
--I just kept building.
JIM YOUNG: We've talked
about this before.
Folks seemingly have it.
And you were instilled with
certain values and certain work
ethic by your parents,
but in different respects.
Each one had things that
they came at you with.
Can you sort of walk
us through that?
I mean, how does that
start off in early life
and then manifest itself in some
of your later accomplishments?
JOE DE SENA: So my
dad was a workaholic
even when he was going
through tough times.
Everybody in the
neighborhood we grew up in,
even if they were doing bad
things, were pretty committed.
People owned pizza places.
People owned cement companies.
They just worked very hard.
My mother, for whatever reason,
got into yoga, meditation,
health food, and
ultra-endurance running.
And the reason she got into
ultra-endurance running
is in Queens, not
far from our house,
was a run called the
Transcendence Run.
It was a 3,000-mile run
around a one-mile loop.
And just as a young
person hearing that,
my limits then were
set at a different bar.
Well, if somebody
could run 3,000 miles
around one-mile loops,
what else could you do?
And so those two influences
really shaped me.
JIM YOUNG: You end up
selling your business
and deciding to
go to Wall Street.
Can you sort of walk us
through the transition there?
So you're very successful.
You're doing these different
companies, the pool products
industry, if you
will, and the pools.
But you also launched several
other companies in the process.
But then you said, I want
to go to Wall Street.
JOE DE SENA: Well, I
didn't say-- the last thing
I wanted to do was
go to Wall Street.
I said I would
never-- and this is
going to upset
everybody here-- I never
was going to sit in front
of a computer all day.
I wanted to work physically.
I just enjoyed being physical.
And in college, I
had met a gentleman
who was a very
successful investor.
And he had begged me to make
an investment in a stock.
And I had no interest.
I was doing very well
with the pool business.
We now had a
construction company.
And he would just
call me relentlessly,
month after month, that he
wanted me to cross the river,
go to Manhattan, and
work on Wall Street.
He saw something
with my work ethic
that he thought I could
really capitalize on.
And I kept saying no.
And then one day, he said, I
want you to buy this stock.
And he gave me the
name of the stock.
And I thought, he's nuts.
I'm not going to do it.
And I went to go collect
money, in accounts receivable,
from one of my
construction customers,
who was a pharmacist.
And I asked him,
I said Eli, what
do you think of this stock
my friend just recommended?
And he said I can't believe
you're mentioning that,
because I was just
in the shower,
and that's the stock
I'm going to buy today.
And he sat me down.
And he said, you're
young, you're not married.
You should make an investment.
And so he convinced me to take
the money he owed me, which
was substantial, and put it with
his broker and buy this stock.
And the next day, the
company got taken over.
And I made $100,000 in a day.
And I said, I'm
going to Wall Street.
[LAUGHTER]
That's a lot better
than cleaning pools.
JIM YOUNG: Do you
have any more tips?
[LAUGHTER]
Just kidding.
So you're very successful
on Wall Street.
You did have a few
bumps in the beginning.
I'm sort of curious of that.
JOE DE SENA: Lots of bumps.
JIM YOUNG: Why did
you leave that world?
You were very successful.
You built up this company, I
think it was 10 years or so.
But what was the
aha moment where
you said, this isn't what
I want to ultimately do,
I want to do
something different?
And making that change
is a very big change
at that point in your life.
JOE DE SENA: Yeah.
For me, I don't
think it was ever
planned to be there to
begin with, as I described.
And I certainly wasn't
going to stay there.
I was there for a
specific reason.
I wanted to make some money
before I had a family.
And I always had a picture
of a little red barn
next to my desk,
and that's where
I was going, wherever that was.
And we found a
place up in Vermont.
The opportunity came
up to sell the company.
We went to Vermont.
And that was that.
And I always had this influence
on people, the same influence
my mother had, which was
I would just rope people
into exercise and
sweat and yoga.
And before you know
it, it changed lives.
And I really just
wanted to do that.
JIM YOUNG: You wanted
to change lives.
And you start off with what
would be called typically
elite athletes running
these incredible races.
But then, I'm sort of curious,
you wanted to reach the masses.
And you started Spartan Races.
And could you sort
of give us the notion
behind those and involving some
people that normally may never
have exercised or gotten
involved to that level?
It's fascinating that many
events and sports are geared
for the upper
level, but you want
to reach out to all communities
and all types of people,
regardless of their previous
athletic prowess or lack
thereof.
JOE DE SENA:
Originally, I said, I
want to reach--
maybe 50,000 people
in the world would do this.
And then we said, wow, we
can get it to a million.
We got to hit a million.
And we hit a million.
And so now we want to hit
10 million people a year
and really affect change.
Because when they come
into our ecosystem,
they start eating better,
they get better friends,
they start going to bed early,
they drink less, they work out.
And so we nailed it.
We found something that
really appeals to people.
It sounds funny
saying it here, right,
but that's not
technologically advanced.
It's actually going
backwards, right?
We're getting people dirty.
We're getting them to sweat
and crawl under barbed wire.
And so who knows what that
number eventually goes to.
But we see all
walks, sizes, shapes.
696-pound men come
out and do it.
Little kids come out and do it.
One day, I was sitting
at the barbed wire.
I like to really mess
with people sometimes.
And I had a fire hose.
And I was just
blasting people as they
were trying to go
through the barbed wire.
And I thought, wow, that woman
has an incredible costume on.
She looks like Flo
from "The Brady Bunch."
There's no way she's
really 75 years old,
but she looked like 75.
And so I wanted to blast
the costume off her,
and it wasn't coming off.
She was really 75.
[LAUGHTER]
I felt terrible afterwards.
Broke her teeth.
No, I'm kidding.
[LAUGHTER]
JIM YOUNG: So who
in the room has
done a Spartan Race or Trifecta?
I think we've got quite a good
sampling here, a vast majority.
So how big has it grown?
I mean, it's gone international.
So you give us a
semblance-- you mentioned
almost a total number
of one million now.
But how many countries?
I mean, this is almost
a worldwide phenomenon.
JOE DE SENA: We have to
get to 42 countries, which
is our goal, because we want
to get this in the Olympics.
We want to make
an Olympic sport.
And we're in 17 countries now.
We'll reach just shy of a
million participants this year.
And it's just, yeah,
logistically challenging.
I look at Google, as you
walk me around the campus,
and think, how did
you grow this fast?
Because on our little, tiny
scale, it's challenging.
But we've got a lot more to go.
JIM YOUNG: Many folks
often talk about starting
with the end in mind.
Or you took steps, and
some folks do in between.
Did you engineer a spot that's
10 years out and sort of
reverse-engineer from there?
Or did you take it
from a point forward,
where you sort of have
these incrementals
in between for milestones?
I'm always curious
how folks-- you
know, when you reach
a million people
and you're taking
10 million, how
did you come about doing that?
Was it one step at a time?
JOE DE SENA: Yeah.
So I have a really sophisticated
system for starting businesses.
I fire.
And then I get ready.
And then I aim.
[LAUGHTER]
I didn't know what
was going to happen.
I really didn't
know whether people
were going to want
to do this or not.
Maybe, like I said,
50,000 people would do it.
But if you stay in touch
with the consumer--
and I do, personally.
I take hundreds and hundreds
of emails and phone calls,
and shake hands,
and talk to people.
And I went through it myself.
It's very authentic, right?
I do this.
I live this lifestyle.
So I know what's going
to aggravate people,
in a good way.
I know what's going
to get them healthier,
from my own experience.
And if we keep doing that,
it just seems to work.
JIM YOUNG: So what makes
successful people tick?
And so you wrote a
very interesting book
called "Spartan Up!"
And some of you
may have read it.
And I highly recommend it.
It's a "New York
Times" bestseller.
But you took some
of these concepts--
and it's not just about the
athletic part and fitness.
It's about the emotional state.
It's about the mental state.
Can you sort of walk us through
the book, what it's about,
and what folks would glean
from it by reading it?
JOE DE SENA: What happened was,
early on, when I was building
these businesses, I would
bring in lots of employees,
just like Google or any company.
And it intrigued me, as it
probably does anybody running
a business, why some people were
amazing and others weren't, why
some people could commit, why
some people had motivation,
why some people
showed up, and didn't.
And invariably, I found
Eastern Europeans or foreigners
in general were just
amazing employees for me
in the businesses
I was building.
They didn't ask
about vacation time.
They didn't ask about
getting paid more money.
They really just
wanted more hours.
They wanted to work more.
That was a privilege for them.
And I wanted to get to
the core of why that was.
And was there a secret
sauce that we can then
share with the rest of the
world so that everybody
could be that motivated?
And I think there is.
Will people actually
follow it step by step?
I don't know.
Some will.
I mean, we've gotten an
amazing response from the book.
It was a "New York Times"
number two bestseller.
At the core of it is changing
your frame of reference.
So how do you fight
for milk every day
when you've got an
abundance of milk?
And for me, what I do is I do
300 burpees in the morning.
They're terrible.
It brings me back to
a third-world country.
I want to escape, right?
I want to get back to
just not doing burpees.
And I take a cold shower.
And then the rest
of the day is easy.
No matter what bad news you
get, you're not doing burpees.
It's not so bad.
[LAUGHTER]
JIM YOUNG: And you
wrote the book,
but you're looking
at different ways
of getting the message out.
And I heard earlier
that you're looking
at doing a podcast
for the people
to experience this
content more often
and to have these conversations.
Could you sort of get into
the "Spartan Up" podcast
that's going to be
launched next month?
JOE DE SENA: So we started
spartanuppodcast.com,
I believe, is our URL.
And we've interviewed, in the
last three months, 115 people,
people like Richard
Branson, the guy who
shot Bin Laden, the
CEO of Kodak, Twitter,
hopefully somebody at Google.
And we just tried to
get to the core of what
made that person successful.
As an example, interviewed
a person from Lebanon
the other day.
And he's a multi-billionaire,
lives out in LA.
His story is amazing.
He was in Lebanon at a young
age in the mid-'70s doing really
well.
And they kidnap him.
Some people from Syria,
they hang him upside down,
they beat him for 96 hours.
He was definitely hallucinating.
He escapes.
They throw him out of Lebanon.
He loses his employees.
He loses his business.
He lands in Geneva,
meets somebody
related to the Shah of Iran.
They bring him into Iran.
He rebuilds his
business and his life
over the next three, four years.
And then they kill a
bunch of his friends.
They throw him out of Iran.
He lands in LA, $17 in his
pocket, rebuilds his life.
And now he's a
multi-billionaire here.
Just went back to Lebanon
for the first time.
How does that happen?
How does that person
keep taking one step
and putting it in
front of the other
and then have such a great
demeanor and personality?
And maybe we can copy that.
JIM YOUNG: So in
your course, you're
interviewing some
amazing people.
But you also encounter
all walks of life.
And do you ever get frustrated
in dealing with people that you
know can do more but aren't?
How do you deal
with that situation?
JOE DE SENA: Every day.
Every day.
Yeah, it's an
internal frustration.
And I don't know.
I have the ability
to motivate people.
I just need them
to show up, which
is why I think a lot of
friends don't visit me.
[LAUGHTER]
Because I have a tendency
to rope them into things.
I had one friend
show up once, who
had only ever biked 20 miles.
And I said, come on,
let's go on a bike ride.
We went 270 miles.
He never visited again.
[LAUGHTER]
He never came back.
But I do have the
ability to get them out
on that first bike ride.
JIM YOUNG: So I went to visit
Joe up in his place in Vermont.
We got up at 0430.
I think we were to
your place by 0530.
And we do our
morning 300 burpees.
In the back, he's got a
very unique, little mountain
that he's put in place
1,500 granite steps
that you then do
after the 300 burpees.
And so there's a
little shack on top.
I got stuck halfway up.
So down comes somebody who's
a friend of Joe and mine.
I met him at this event.
It's a guy named
Tony the Fridge.
He carries a refrigerator on his
back and does ultra marathons.
But anyway, Tony doesn't
lift or carry me.
What he tells me is, you're
going to get up the mountain.
Here's the technique you use.
And he got me up, in tiny
steps, with my head up.
And I was in severe pain.
They were waiting on
the top of mountain.
They don't stop until
the last person's up.
And I'll never forget that.
Between the morning
workout and that,
he's basically got
me back on that path.
Because I'd become a Googler who
sits in front of a computer way
too often.
And so this has
sort of re-energized
me to get back in it, sort
of like your Wall Street
experience.
So I thank you for that.
Now, you're involved
in a lot of stuff.
And I know you're focusing
on the Spartan Race
and building out.
But you also have
some new endeavors,
like the 431 Project.
And I'm wearing
that T-shirt here.
Can you tell us a little bit
about it, what it's about,
what problems you're
trying to address,
and how maybe Googlers and
people across the world--
JOE DE SENA: Could help?
JIM YOUNG: --could help.
Exactly.
JOE DE SENA: Yeah.
So back in 431 BC, we
stumbled upon this concept
of the four elements--
earth, air, water, fire.
And so it got me thinking,
today's four elements
are like computers,
cellphone, doughnut, couch.
And can we get kids,
who are expected
to live five years less than
the current generation, healthy?
Can we get them back immersed
in those four elements?
And to do that, I
thought, we have
to get a bunch of
influential people around.
And you showed up.
Tony the Fridge showed up.
148 other people showed up.
And we sat around,
like a think tank,
and said, how do we do this?
And so we've already come up
with some really cool and neat
ideas.
And the idea is to
get kids moving.
To give you a
background on my kids--
and don't call social
services-- but my kids
will do kung fu every
day for an hour.
They'll do wrestling practice
for an hour-- daughters, too.
And my seven-year-old ran
the New York Marathon, when
he was eight years old,
ran the Boston Marathon.
So kids can do a lot
more than we ask of them.
JIM YOUNG: And one of the
speakers at this event
was Winter--
JOE DE SENA: Yeah, Vinecki.
JIM YOUNG: --Vinecki, who's
run a marathon on all seven
continents.
She's 15.
Absolutely amazing.
I highly encourage you to
go on to their website that
has all the YouTube
videos of these speakers.
It's fascinating to cover
everybody from Winter
to some of the health
and nutrition folks
that are folks doing studies.
And I know McKinsey
just put out a report
saying that worldwide obesity
is now a $2 trillion problem.
So obesity is going
to surpass starvation
as a worldwide problem.
And Joe is trying
to help address that
through this Project 431 and
getting kids moving again.
So when we're up there,
we started a new tradition
on the last day.
And you may or may not
recall what it was.
So in the military, you
get a challenge coin,
in which case, you
have to present
each other with
a challenge coin.
And if the person
doesn't have it,
they have to do
something for you.
So to this day, Joe gave
these up at the Project 431
the last day.
I carry this with
me at all times.
If I present it to somebody
who was also there,
Joe, and he doesn't have his
challenge rock in return--
JOE DE SENA: I don't have it.
JIM YOUNG: What
do we have to do?
JOE DE SENA: You got to tell me.
I don't know.
JIM YOUNG: We have
to do 20 burpees.
JOE DE SENA: All
right, let's do them.
JIM YOUNG: So we're
going to 20 burpees.
And we're going to get energized
for our Question and Answer
period.
JOE DE SENA: You guys in?
JIM YOUNG: You guys in?
Who's in?
JOE DE SENA: We got to do it.
Let's do it.
JIM YOUNG: Let's
do it as a group.
JOE DE SENA: Let's do it.
Exercise one.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Six.
Seven.
Eight.
Nine.
And 20.
[PANTING]
[APPLAUSE]
JIM YOUNG: [GRUNTS] Well done.
OK.
Let's go ahead-- bring
those chairs back in,
and we'll do a little
Question and Answer.
AUDIENCE: So I can maybe
start with one from the Dory.
And the first
question is, what's
the one thing that makes you
go after you've hit a wall?
How can we apply this
to our daily lives?
JOE DE SENA: One foot in
front of the other basically
is the trick.
Everybody's going to hit a wall.
And so what I like to do--
this morning, I went for a run.
I did my workout, and
then I went for a run.
And I ran to a point where
I kind of hit a wall.
I didn't feel like
going anymore.
Then I had to turn
around and get back.
So I purposely make
sure I hit walls a lot.
And you'd be surprised how
you can move that wall.
I think we live in a
little, small boxes.
And we don't really
test ourselves.
And so it's important
that we go out and do
some of these things
that might sound crazy.
But I think they
only sound crazy,
because normal gets
worse each year.
We all like comfort.
And because we like comfort and
there's all these advancements
in technology, normal is moving
those walls closer to us.
And a lot of people don't
want to hit the wall,
if that makes sense.
JIM YOUNG: This is real water.
It's not a hallucination.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you.
JOE DE SENA: Thanks.
AUDIENCE: Hi, Joe.
JOE DE SENA: Hi.
AUDIENCE: It's a
pleasure to meet you.
JOE DE SENA: My pleasure.
AUDIENCE: Spartan
changed my life.
JOE DE SENA: How?
AUDIENCE: How?
JOE DE SENA: How did
it change your life?
AUDIENCE: I did my first Spartan
Beast in 2013, Sacramento.
I didn't do any kind
of training for it.
I just jumped in there.
It was like jumping
with the wolves.
I was, like, in pain for
maybe, like, two weeks.
Yeah.
It was the worst.
JOE DE SENA: But it woke you up?
AUDIENCE: It showed me what
I needed to do to train.
And then I tried my
Trifecta this year.
JOE DE SENA: Nice.
AUDIENCE: And then this past
week, I just ran in Malibu.
JOE DE SENA: Nice.
AUDIENCE: And I got the battle
wounds to prove it, you know.
JOE DE SENA: But you're hooked?
You're hooked?
AUDIENCE: Yeah,
I'm hooked, hooked.
I just keep coming
back for more.
The question I wanted to
ask you is, I did the rope.
I usually finish that obstacle.
But this weekend, the top of
that rope was like butter.
The majority of us
were just like--
JOE DE SENA: Sliding?
AUDIENCE: --sliding
right through it.
I don't know why.
I was all the way at the top.
And I had my lace wrapped on
the top of one of the knots.
All I had to do was
just pull myself up
one more time, slap that bell.
And just couldn't get
that grip, none of us.
JOE DE SENA: Couldn't do it?
AUDIENCE: We were
all just like, ah.
And we'd be up there wiping
our hands and nothing.
Tried it again,
slipped right through.
Try it again, slipped
right through.
So I just said, screw it, put
my hand up and just leap up
for it.
And then right
when I did that, I
was just going to be
falling all the down now.
And then battle scars all over.
JOE DE SENA: Did you go back up?
AUDIENCE: I tried it again.
JOE DE SENA: Didn't do it?
AUDIENCE: No.
No difference.
JOE DE SENA: What time
did you go out there?
What day was it?
AUDIENCE: It was a--
JOE DE SENA: Saturday?
AUDIENCE: --Saturday.
We ran the 12:15 wave.
JOE DE SENA: I had just
been at the rope climb
putting Vaseline
all over the rope.
[LAUGHTER]
AUDIENCE: I was
like, wait a minute.
Because, like, why is
it so slippery up top?
JIM YOUNG: Be thankful he
didn't have the water hose.
[LAUGHTER]
JOE DE SENA: I saw
on the registration
you were from Google.
I did that.
[LAUGHTER]
AUDIENCE: It was like nice and
dry all the way at the bottom.
It was just at the top.
JOE DE SENA: Every
other rope was dry.
I couldn't believe
you picked that one.
[LAUGHTER]
You wanted to know
why, now you know.
AUDIENCE: Just, I'm
honored to meet you.
AUDIENCE: So there's one more
question on our Dory page.
So from scaling the participants
from 40,000 to over a million,
what's been the biggest growing
pains for the organization,
and any lessons
learned from that?
JOE DE SENA: Technology.
And that would be a
question for Google.
I mean, we're stressed in
trying to quickly develop
all the technology required
in social, and registration,
back end, CRM, just like
any company our size.
That's been-- thank god we
have a lot of adventure,
racing types and
super athletes working
for us that will work 24 hours
a day, hallucination or not.
And so that part-- I
can't say it's easy.
That's the lesser of
the challenge for us.
The larger challenge
has been technology.
JIM YOUNG: Google might just
have a few cloud platforms that
can help out with scaling this.
AUDIENCE: For me, the
obstacles in the Spartans
were always kind
of the fun part.
The running always sucks.
Uphill always sucks.
And the obstacles were
just that little nugget
that kind of keep you going
after the running parts, right?
Curious.
Out of all the obstacles
you've seen, dealt with,
thought of, what is one you'd
like to have that you can't?
JOE DE SENA: I love
the gladiators.
I don't know if you remember
the gladiators at the end.
I love the gladiators.
But if we want to be a sport,
we've got to be consistent.
And you can't take a chance
that a gladiator, one gladiator
is going to take a
guy out or a woman out
right at the end when
they're about to finish.
We used to have gladiators
standing at the finish line.
So now you've spent two hours
getting through this thing.
You've gone up and
down the rope 12 times.
You finally got it.
And then you get taken out
by a gladiator at the end.
I loved it.
But I don't think it
works for us being sport.
AUDIENCE: My former
office mate got
hit by a gladiator going
across the finish line
and broke his wrist.
JOE DE SENA: There you go.
AUDIENCE: And then,
as a programmer,
told our boss that he was super
excited to do it next year.
And our boss was furious.
[LAUGHTER]
So my question is,
how do you choose
the balance between
fitness-based obstacles--
like, anybody can--
well, not anybody,
but you don't need a
lot of specific training
to pull a tire uphill.
How do you balance that with
really skill-based things,
like throwing a javelin, that
seems to be just a burpee fest?
JOE DE SENA: The operative
word there is "balance."
I get lots of emails
from the fast runners
that say, why do
you have to have
so many obstacles and
why so many heavy things?
I get lots of emails
from the strong people
that say, why do we have
to have so much running?
People that are
talented at spear
throw want us to have
nine spear throws.
So it's this balance of
kind of-- without sounding
terrible-- breaking everyone,
of getting everybody
uncomfortable
across the spectrum.
And if we do that, then we've
really achieved our goal.
Like, if I slowed a runner down,
speed up the heavier, fast guy,
or woman, and even trip up
the person that's really
talented at some of those
more technical obstacles,
then we've won.
So that's the balance.
AUDIENCE: How do
you best prepare
and how do you best
recover for the events?
Do you have any advice?
JOE DE SENA: It just
depends how committed
you are as far as
preparation goes.
When I was really training
for my events-- and some
of the elites that
train for Spartan Race
will train no less than three
and a half, four hours a day.
So that's committed, right?
And then if somebody says, look,
I don't have a lot of time.
I can't spend that
much time doing this.
And I'm not that fit.
You can get out there just
by walking a mile a day
and doing 30 burpees
and 30 pull-ups.
By the way, pull-ups scare
everybody, because they say,
I can't even do one pull-up.
Do jump-ups.
Literally, if you did 30
jump-ups a day every day,
and 30 burpees,
and walked a mile,
you'd get through any
one of these events.
You're not going to win them,
but you'll get through it.
And you're still probably
going to be a little sore.
That's a bonus.
Recovery is ice
plunge, ice water.
Not hot water, ice water.
JIM YOUNG: Well, great.
Well, we want to thank all the
Googlers that showed up today.
We want to thank, especially,
some Googlers that
helped out in the background--
Jonas and Sasha, Cliff,
helping out.
And we've got something
special in store for you.
So we're going to head
over to the Garfield area.
And we've got our own little
Spartan Googler course set up.
But first and
foremost, obviously, we
want to thank Joe and
his team for coming today
and for sharing
with us his vision.
Highly recommend his book.
And then, of
course, the podcasts
that are coming up in January.
I highly recommend
those as well.
So Joe, on behalf of Google,
we want to thank you.
JOE DE SENA: Thanks
for having me.
JIM YOUNG: And look
forward to everyone
over at the obstacle course.
Thank you.
JOE DE SENA: Thanks.
[APPLAUSE]